Query plan page (#604)
memgraph/documentation: pages/querying/performance-optimization.md

| "* Once"                           | 2                                  | "  0.001765 %"                     | "  0.000131 ms"                    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
```

> This time, the goal is to find the `:Transfer` node with the specific year property, and the `Filter` is applied to filter the results from `ScanALL,` again all nodes from the graph. 

Reviewer: this part: "again all nodes from the graph".  is a bit weird. Can you rewrite that sentence so it's more clear?

> This time, the goal is to find the `:Transfer` node with the specific year property, and the `Filter` is applied to filter the results from `ScanALL,` again all nodes from the graph. 

Author: I did.

```

There is no more `Filter` operator that took 80% of the cost of the query. Now, the actual cost comes from writing a node. 

## Cyphermorphism

When writing longer query chains, try to keep them compact as possible. 

Here is an example of longer query chains: 

```

EXPLAIN MATCH (n)-[r1]-(m)-[r2]-(l) RETURN *;
+-------------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                          |
+-------------------------------------+
| " * Produce {l, m, n, r1, r2}"      |
| " * EdgeUniquenessFilter {r2 : r1}" |
| " * Expand (m)-[r1]-(n)"            |
| " * Expand (l)-[r2]-(m)"            |
| " * ScanAll (l)"                    |
| " * Once"                           |
+-------------------------------------+

```

Your goal should be  *cyphermorphism*, i.e., ensure different relationships in the search pattern of a single MATCH map to different relationships in the graph. 
If you want a chained query, it should be written that way. Notice how the `EdgeUniquenessFilter` was applied, meaning the relationships `r1` and `r2`
need to be unique, and that means the data in the query pipeline is unique, and there are no duplicated nodes and relationships. 

> The query engine treats the following tripplet syntaxt  `(start node, edge, end node)` the same way: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query engine treats the following triplet syntax `(start node, edge, end node)` the same way: 
```

```
EXPLAIN MATCH (n)-[r1]-(m), (m)-[r2]-(l) RETURN *;
+-------------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                          |
+-------------------------------------+
| " * Produce {l, m, n, r1, r2}"      |
| " * EdgeUniquenessFilter {r2 : r1}" |
| " * Expand (m)-[r1]-(n)"            |
| " * Expand (l)-[r2]-(m)"            |
| " * ScanAll (l)"                    |
| " * Once"                           |
+-------------------------------------+
```

But if you are using the following syntax, it is different: 

```
EXPLAIN MATCH (n)-[r1]-(m)  MATCH (m)-[r2]-(l) RETURN *;
+--------------------------------+
| QUERY PLAN                     |
+--------------------------------+
| " * Produce {l, m, n, r1, r2}" |
| " * Expand (m)-[r1]-(n)"       |
| " * Expand (l)-[r2]-(m)"       |
| " * ScanAll (l)"               |
| " * Once"                      |
+--------------------------------+

```

During writing of a Cypher query, some clauses will split your query into multiple logical query parts, which means the `MATCH` 

> statements are different, and there is no uniqueness filter applied there since they are logically separated. 

Reviewer: again a bit unclear, can you rewrite?

Here is the visualization: 
```
MATCH (n) CREATE (m) WITH m MATCH (l)-[]-(m) RETURN l
|                          |                        |
|------- part 1 -----------+-------- part 2 --------|
|                                                   |
|-------------------- single query -----------------|
```

The clauses that cause a query split are `MATCH,` `MERGE,` `OPTIONAL MATCH,` `WITH`, and `UNION.` This will 
lead to wrong results and more duplicated data in the query pipeline, which leads to poor performance. 

## Index hinting

> When executing a query, Memgraph needs to decide where in the query graph to

Reviewer: "Memgraph needs to decide where in the query graph to"
This is unclear

start matching. To get the optimal match, it checks the MATCH clause conditions
and finds the index that's likely to be the best choice, if there are multiple indexes
to choose from.

However, the selected index might not always be the best one. Sometimes, there
are multiple candidate indexes, and the query planner picks the suboptimal one
from a performance point of view.

You can instruct the planner to use specific index(es) (if possible) in the
query that follows by using the syntax below:

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label, :Label2 ...;
```

```cypher
USING INDEX :Label(Property) ...
```

It is also possible to specify multiple hints separated with comma. In that
case, the planner will apply the first hint that is applicable for a given
match.

> An example of selecting an index with USING INDEX: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of selecting an index with `USING INDEX`: 
```

```

> During parsing of a Cypher query, some clauses will cause the splitting of your query into multiple logical query parts, which means that multiple `MATCH` 
> statements are considered independent, and there is no uniqueness filter applied there since they are logically separated query parts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During parsing of a Cypher query, some clauses, such as multiple `MATCH` statements, split the query into multiple logical query parts. They are considered independent, so no uniqueness filter is applied.
```
